all right I'm will Hales with Hales
farms here in Salisbury Maryland and we
grow approximately 300 acres of
watermelons three my father started
growing seedless watermelons
approximately 28 years ago and I guess
I'm third generation in the family farm
to grow watermelons
as far as watermelons grown here in
Maryland and Delaware and on the Eastern
Shore we feel very strongly that we have
the best flavor and the best quality I
think it's a lot better when your your
produce or whatever it is is grown kind
of basically in your backyard because
you know at least you have a
relationship possibly you might even be
in the community with people who know
the the growers of the produce and maybe
you ride by and see the fields and see
the guys working hard out there to try
to raise the best produce so we'll start
doing our rice trips in November and
March we'll start tilling the land with
a rototiller we'll lay our plastic and
then shortly after that after we get all
the water hooked up before we plant we
usually try to have the irrigation all
ready to roll before we plant our field
and then we'll plant the field most the
time around the the tail end of April
and then after that basically every week
we'll plant a field and we try to keep
our crop spread out and we'll usually
plant almost every week up until the
first part of July typically we'll have
anywhere on any given day from from 40
to 60 guys working for us harvesting and
packing the melons if you've been
driving down the road recently and
you've seen a chopped up school bus
that's that's pretty much the harvesting
vehicle of choice yeah you'll see a lot
of school buses and the guys will come
out in the field and drive down the
drive roads and they'll be loading them
up and we quite a bit of watermelon
probably a little bit different than
most people the way we usually eat it is
to get a piece out in the field so we
cheat a little bit but most of the time
if we're out here whether it's checking
the irrigation lines or we might be out
here spraying or just coming out seeing
what's going on with the bees and the
pollination or whatever and we'll come
out here and if we see one that looks
like we need to eat it we'll go ahead
and slice it open and most of the time
we we eat the heart out of it because
we're around them so much and then we'll
enjoy that and then we'll roll it over I
guess the most
ratifying thing about growing
watermelons probably to me would be when
you see small children enjoying a
watermelon with their family whether it
be a picnic or any type of outdoor
activity there's something about kids in
watermelon and just kind of seeing the
young child eating the watermelon with
the juice running all down their face
under their t-shirt that uh that's
that's pretty gratifying because most
kids are pretty attracted to older melon
and love the way it tastes so that that
would pretty much be the the most
gratifying thing and of course it's it's
gratifying to see you know a well raised
crop and if you don't have more
delicious watermelons in your local
grocery store please ask the produce
buyer or the produce manager in the
store if he would do what he could to
get you some more delicious watermelons
and after after that happens I think
you'll continue asking for them and
returning to purchase them and that'd be
a great help to us so thanks